2.1
suitability of sea
- lmic
- ag
- conflict
conflict instigators
previous work - forms of conflict/types of actors (gatti)



greed & grievance + the three mechanisms
difficult to sort out/disentangle
mechanisms and forms of conflict
previous work - mechanisms (panza swee)
violence positive - rapacity
social unrest - opportunity cost/reseontment ambiguous
battles - meh



2.2
violence - rapacity - pathways (approrpiration, retaliation, deterring)
(approrpiration)
(retaliation)
(deterring)

2.3
unrest -- opportunity cost - pathways (busyness, income, "income")
better eason - less unrest
anecdote
resentment


when the lawful alternatives such as farming do not pay enough (e.g., after a bad crop year). To that end, the opportunity cost of fighting is seen as an increasing function of income—a negative income shock leads to more violence. However, this alludes to a relatively long-term commitment to a conflict. A shorter-term manifestation of the opportunity cost mechanism would be instances when people engage in a social conflict, such as protests and riots, when their value of time is relatively low. In the agricultural sector, this would be the period during the year when people are not actively farming (Guardado and Pennings, 2023). Similarly, perpetrators of violence may feel grievance over their own economic situation relative to the past (i.e., a previous season or the same season the previous year), leading to a decrease in the opportunity cost of engaging in conflict (Panza and Swee, 2023).



2.1. Agricultural Origins of Conflict in Southeast Asia
Previous work on the connection between conflict and agricultural output in Southeast Asia has come to nuanced conclusions about the types of conflict pursued by different actors and the potential relationship with agricultural outputs. Gatti et al. (2021) find that decreased agricultural output is associated with an increase in civil conflict in Indonesia, but irrigation infrastructure specifically mitigates this link. They divide conflict into that over natural resources, issues of popular justice, conflicts triggered by government policy, those triggered by group identity, and separatist incidents. Their findings suggest that this effect is particularly strong for natural resource conflicts, popular justice, and law enforcement actions and is less strong for conflicts driven by ethnic separatism and group identity. While their categorizations do not specifically differentiate civilian protest and rioting from state- and rebel-initiated conflict, in broad strokes it appears that conflicts arising from protests against government policy and over natural resources can be more effectively mitigated by reducing the effects of negative agricultural shocks. On the other hand, ethnic separatist conflicts, often associated with insurgent activities, are more prevalent in Indonesia, where rebel groups generally have religious or ethnic goals. 

2.2. Harvest-Time Increase in Violence Against Civilians
In Southeast Asia, both opportunity cost/resentment and rapacity mechanisms are at play, depending on the form of conflict/type of actor. For attacks on civilians, in a rapacity mechanism, 


2.3. Harvest-Time Decrease in Unrest by Civilians
