Reviewer #1: Reviewer Report, "Agricultural Shocks and Social Conflict in Southeast Asia"
Recommendation: Revision (on balance, more minor than major)

I found a lot to like in this piece, though there are several issues I'd like to see resolved/clarified before recommending publication - though to be clear, in terms of scope, subject matter, and novelty in terms of clarifying the complex incentives created by seasonal abundance/scarcity in agriculturally-dependent societies, I think it is definitely an eventual candidate for publication. My big outstanding issues are three:

1. Clarifying the use of price data. It is never mentioned at what level it's collected/modeled, which calls into question some of the identifying assumptions that are intended to address endogeneity concerns (see below in my point about pg. 11).
2. The exclusion of Laos in particular needs to be justified and theoretically motivated. At present, it is lumped in with several smaller and/or not agriculturally dependent countries like Brunei and Singapore; this doesn't make sense considering its economy is more similar to those of its neighboring countries that are included. The inclusion/exclusion of cases needs to be better theoretically justified.
3. "A common pattern that emerges in both tables is that when the value or the volume of the harvest increases, the intensity of all forms of social conflict decreases (or at least do not increase)." I just don't see (unless it's by assumption) that you can reject the plausible mechanism that the reduction in social conflict made the volume and value of the harvest increase absent some clarification of the price variable (if it's a global price, then the exogeneity to specific conflict events for a widely grown staple crop make sense; if it's a very local price, not so much). This point is seemingly a narrow empirical one, but I think it is important for demonstrating the degree to which market signals can be thought of as exogenous or endogenous to proximate (conflict) environment.

Best of luck in revision!

Minor points:

*Pg. 4, 7-9: "This finding likely conflates the rapacity mechanisms of conflict with grievance and opportunity cost mechanisms of conflict." This wording is unclear; does the author mean the two effects cancel one another out? Please clarify.

*Pg. 4, 29: "battles and explosions". During the time of an explosion? Does the author mean literal explosions, like bombs and mines and the like? Please clarify.

*Pg. 8, 16-27: Please consider relabeling the table "Actors and conflict seasonality: theoretical expectations" to clarify that this would be the short-hand go-to table for reference the pieces theoretical conjectures.

*Pg. 9: "Nasi Bungku Brigade" is a pretty sweet punk band name.

Pg. 11: The specific modeling choices may render this question immaterial, but at what resolution do you have price data? Is it at the national level? The regional level? The dynamics being discussed here strike me as being pretty localized in some instances and not in others. It's important the price data match as closely as possible the level of spatial/temporal resolution at which the theory operates.

Pg. 12, 11-14: "Moreover, there are very few incidents observed in Brunei, Laos, Singapore, and Timor-Leste, and we omit these countries." This omission needs some defense on theoretical grounds, not just empirical ones. I can buy that rice harvesting isn't a big tax on the average Singaporean's time, but I would 100% expect these dynamics to apply to Laos unless the Lao political opportunity structure simply isn't permissive enough. That is, this needs to be either framed in terms of a theoretically-motivated scope condition or these examples need to be included in the analysis.

*Pg. 12, 23-28: "This excludes incidents with the geo-precision code 3 in the database, as the exact locations of such incidents are unknown and they are arbitrarily attributed to the nearest known site, typically a provincial capital." The reader (including yours truly) may not know what precision code 3 means, so please spell out even parenthetically.

Pg. 18, 40-45: "The identifying assumption in Equation (1) rests on the premise that the treatment variable, which is the product of the cropland area fraction and harvest month, is exogenous to conflict observed across locations." This strikes me as a pretty tenuous assumption, given what we know about how conflict affects food production via abandoned plots and missed harvests and/or sewing seasons.

Pg. 22, 41-47: "A common pattern that emerges in both tables is that when the value or the volume of the harvest increases, the intensity of all forms of social conflict decreases (or at least do not increase)." I just don't see (unless it's by assumption) that you can reject the plausible mechanism that the reduction in social conflict made the volume and value of the harvest increase absent some clarification of the price variable (if it's a global price, then the exogeneity to specific conflict events for a widely grown staple crop make sense; if it's a very local price, not so much).

Pg. 27, 7-12: "This is to be expected—the battles and explosions usually involve, directly or indirectly, the state. As a result, there is less policing elsewhere, which among other things, results in more crime and less order in the region." OK, but this could also be evidence of other mechanisms, like socialization into violence as a legitimate means of addressing grievances.
